Neal Sáles-Griffin: You'll be able to manage everything.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Corporate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, what did you say?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. So now we know who wants to fundraise, see? Who's interested in fundraising. I'm very happy that not everybody wants to fundraise. That's actually not a bad thing. No, but I think there's probably weather delays, too, so people will learn very slowly and surely. But I want to commit to starting cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. So let's talk about it. Any top of the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: say is like the origin of these, this series is actually relatively new. Every tech starts program over the past. I don't know 15 years. Each program has their own version of this call
Neal Sáles-Griffin: until now. So what we've done over the past 6 months is all of the managing directors band together, and we put together a series, a 3 part fundraising workshop series. So this is a bit of a master class that concentrates all of our collectively.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I actually spearheaded part 3 of this series with another managing director, Ryan Hunter. But this is part one today. But here's what we'll go through
Neal Sáles-Griffin: over the course of the next few weeks, and then also in month 3 way more heavily. So this is just more of a teaser.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I did. Vc relations and negotiation. So this is like how you like close the deal and close the line. That's where I spent most of the time helping founders. Sylvia has experience across all 3 of these categories, so it'll be great to kind of have her eyes on it. But today we'll just talk about some of the things that you guys already know. But I also wanna make a few important points. I'm curious to hear from you guys. You have other perspectives to share with one another, and then also dig into some key questions
Neal Sáles-Griffin: about this stuff. So that's what we'll cover today. Any questions about this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: can I make a quick comment? But usually the second session, which we do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: many times many times here, like, it's very interactive. So definitely like, you know, this is some one of those sort of black boxes, and like being a boundary like, what is the term? What is this? What is that like? It feels? Really, it can feel really confusing, and also just really nuanced. So don't hesitate to pause. Ask questions. But that being said, we do have like 3 workshops on this. So a lot of your questions will probably be addressed. But we do want to encourage you guys to to like, be engaged and ask questions. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: guess most of your expertise into like us. Fundraising, you see, like a lot of difference from with other countries? Or are you advising us like raise us? Or
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's a good question. So in the past year, like probably half or more of the founders that I've invested in or international, came here. And are are they come here to fundraise here, but they also have experience fundraising elsewhere. So my personal experience is more limited to the Us. Honestly. But our collective experience and the access to people in our network expands all over the world, especially Europe.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I'm also asking, because know, that's more money here. But there's also not the same level of competition, and not the same level of like recognition based on like a lot more about this than you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's where our network is at 100%. Because, like, you know, we've we've been in Europe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for I don't know, like almost as long as we've been in a lot of other markets. So since over the past 10 years or more, right? So if we can, if if there's any specific nuance to a market, I can like work with you to find that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one question on my front we see kind of like, I guess, equal success
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or startups raised in the Us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is that something that's been done before. Is it like us, like we've already established us. Business
Neal Sáles-Griffin: already established is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right. So the idea is that if you do have something where you can demonstrate some significant in here. The land and expand
Neal Sáles-Griffin: today is really compelling.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think it's all about how you play it. So if we're going like us. But I'm saying that the general sense, obviously it is what it is. But I'm also curious. So like, is there anything not listed here that you all would be interested in. This is what we're covering like today. We'll get to the rest of this stuff a little later. But today, that's what we're going into anything else yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talk about or the words use
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to relax. No, he didn't. So that's coming through.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm gonna make a note of that. But I'm actually curious. I'm not sure what that might be. More international investors, too, like, I do think a lot of funds that are based in the bay are
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are starting to have more European President there, like a lot of excel. I mean not that these are necessarily the best ones to really work with for every founder. But that does signal that like there is interest from, you know, there's a lot there's more investor activity now, there was like 5 years ago. So it's it's never a bad strategy to, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Talk to as many people as possible, and you know, see where it is, what you're building, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: keep into consideration like funds, you know. Not based here, too.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I think it'd be good to get your thoughts on the kind of process for a preced angel around. And then also like a seed round. Because that's like the current focus. Just to get like we're trying to get step one, and I imagine probably more, maybe focus on that. And then the other one is so relaxing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the other one is if there's like the difference between Vcs among the Us like hearing that there's differences in like Bay area. So like getting that understanding of like that mindset like, yeah, okay,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: regional differences. That's a good one. Right
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cost table. That's obvious. But it also comes with terms, things you have to do. And I think that's also very important to take into account, like we're saying about Angel versus many of you. I think it also
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ties to like whether you should rate or not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think I would be interested to discuss like which maybe also in which platform.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what's that's it's a happy problem. But it's also a really shitty problem later on. Like, if you're successful, the the story, I mean. I have plenty of examples and stories of this, but I know founders who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have so much regret
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for venture, because there are things that they wish they knew in the beginning, and if they had known things, or wouldn't have taken the money, or they would have only taken the money under certain conditions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because at the end of the day you work really hard for 10 years to build a business. And then at the end, you realize, like, wait, I did all this. This is all it's left.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Everybody else takes their chair like that's not cool. So there's a lot of stuff like that that we
Neal Sáles-Griffin: engage with all these workshops program to know what would even be a flag. Right? So I think, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: family offices. Okay? I mean, they're great family offices, in my opinion, are really awesome way. They're super hard to find, because they're kind of all under the radar. But they have really they don't have super sharky ownership percentages and venture is just one diversification strategy for them. So if they click with you. They can move super fast and give you like a pretty good amount of money.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I mean for them, like, you're kind of like a little small percentage right like the the venture. Events for them are more like for fun.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They don't make or break the bank on their venture bets, but Jake comes to mind as a good reference, because he he's multifamily office, I think, but one in particular is Wrinkley.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what's that like? Regularly like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that. Well, that and- and you know cups of travel cups. So there's a few family offices that are on
Neal Sáles-Griffin: pretty good. Yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One last thing I wanted to add for you is that there's also, like probably some family offices connected to the auto industry. That would be strategic capital, too. That would be really smart.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then we've had instances where we've had like legal investors from the bottom.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 1st time investors. Yeah, they usually expect home runs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So the understanding is really awkward for people who've never done it before. So it's typically ill advised unless you do a lot of work upfront to set the right expectation with them, but it almost puts you in a bad spot, because you're like, hey? The only I can tell you is that you're only investing in me. The chances are you're not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's like an advisor for us. And he said that we have like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: don't know how this works, and then have a hard time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Explain it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't know who said it yesterday. I can't remember. But one thing you do have kind of when in your sales about is being a tech center.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because the likelihood of your success goes up by being like going through this just like percentage wise from a market standpoint. So you have things like that that are data points for investors to give them more confidence like that's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: well, okay. And I hope you understand the expectation. I said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: travel businesses are like the 1st or second hardest to find, like she literally, I was like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: knew what I was signing up for when I invested, which is like, we're gonna have a tough time here because she made up for the deficiencies in the perception of her business with her care and energy, which was my bet. So I was right, but it was like it took like almost a year for me to prove that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that, all being said, I think I think you'll have a good time drawing from her playbook, but most of you, if you do what she did, my bet given my understanding of each of your businesses is that you all are. Gonna be further along sooner than how she got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can accomplish a similar thing within probably 6 to 8 weeks or less, but she's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, like she does not hesitate, doesn't turn on notice, Alex. So I put like the the ringers in front of you guys, you understand what it looks like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool, alright, yeah, something irrelevant here. But probably you don't cover today. But it's also something very unique with the Us. Is about like a Us. Government support.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: especially for support. For some like, they have some initiatives, and I'm just curious, like, if there are some platforms that you have, like many of them, are really like network based like connection based
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just give us like, how do you see those type of initiative that I have made like I'll share with you guys. I made like this like non dilutive funding spreadsheet a while back, which you know, I'll share with. Kind of update it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where, you know, that's definitely really smart them to think there's a lot of non funding options, whether it's grants, whether it's, you know, kind of mini programs you go through and stuff like that that can just continue to keep your runway while you're also
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah. Different industries projects access to a certain database
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is good. But there are some great ones that are more
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in the family like amongst you all you all have like. So I'm gonna add, I told Chris this last night I'm gonna add you all to the larger my private alumni, Hq. By the end of next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want to do the retreat. What should meet our guest Speaker next week? Go through a few more things, and then, once that's in, I'll introduce you to the larger alumni and you'll meet some of them tonight, too, at the event. But once I do that, I will say for those of you interested. I'll highlight a few folks, but you met some of them yesterday who have access to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: very, very rich databases and resources that break a lot of this stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so don't just take it from us. Like I. I will always be a source of truth for you, and you can always allow me to like, dig deep and find something if it's missing or unavailable. But just know that, like our alumni network, is even more powerful like there's things that they know that I know
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a lot of lawyers that have some little bit of capital, and they just want to like a month
Neal Sáles-Griffin: happy Monday civic evidence and stuff like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I love that interesting.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. One last question. The more you tell me, the more I prepare for future or for now. So you're not doing anything wrong?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a good question. I'll go deeper. My quick answer to you from your standpoint is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to worry less about those trends. Obviously you have to embrace it to a certain extent, but for the most part the funds are raised for the Vc. That exists now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like they have the capital, regardless of the market conditions
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as someone. I have an 8 million dollar fund in addition to like doing the the, You know this program, and we have to deploy our capital like there's no like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you just need to find the ones that have capital deployed the real market trend. That's a problem are funds that like they're trying to raise their next fund right? So if they don't have the capital deploy, that's what we're all kind of time worrying about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is just my own like opinion. But what I'm observing is like, I tend to notice founders talk about market conditions
Neal Sáles-Griffin: almost like as a distracting element
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, oh, it's hard to raise because of this. And this excuses Vcs make. But really they're just not that Indian.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or you haven't done the job to make them excited about it, because if they want to write a check and they have capital, they can you get it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think these 3 points are like the best way to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like mitigate any sort of market challenges that you see, like the market can go up. It can go down more companies one year. They're less the next year, like it, really. But, like Neil said, like these 3 things, to have a tight process, a broad and thorough investor pipeline, and then your pitch, your decks, your traction, like everything you have, super clean and ready to go. You're giving yourself the best chance
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to fundraise in any market condition, and the reality is that funds are going to invest. But they like have limit investment, like they're not. They can't invest in every company they need. So you know, you have to just be the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be better right like you just have to be better like. And that's just your mentality is, you just have to be a amazing company, and you have to be like a tier one company, and that's all you should be thinking about and forget about other people, because they see a lot of deals.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He did it again. He did it again. We got him. It's a running jump. Now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's the whole point I was trying to make like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, the other thing, though. Let's answer. Your question is about seasonality, right? That tends to come up to, and I'll give you just a couple anecdotes, you know. People say, Oh, well, you know, Vcs are, you know, they're not available over the holidays. That's true.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: unless they like you. Okay? Because, like I see, deals get done over the holidays. I see deals get done in off Peak, you know, time or whatever like they happen when it's good, because there's an opportunity window to get in on a good deal. I'm not gonna miss an opportunity to bet on a great company if I know the founder and I get control and referral, and it's a good conversation like I'll take a call with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't care right? And it's say, for, like all the savages out there, yeah. So a personal story, I literally did a deal over Thanksgiving like over that weekend essentially like, and it was we like let it. And it was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: such a cool deal. It was nutrition. It was like telling nutrition. I was like eating pumpkin pie diligencing this company. But we were just running, I mean, so like, you know, like like all things you could strategize around. Oh, I want to fundraise after the holidays, but the reality is like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they want you. They'll get you. And that's you have to be okay with that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from understanding when farms are maybe at the end of their fund, or they're still like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: feel like sometimes they'll talk to you because it's just scoping happens all the time. So- so the whole thing is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes, in order to raise your next round
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or your you know your next one. You need to show that you have promising deals in the pipeline to kind of entice your lps to commit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So every now and then a fund will have, like one investment left that they can
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, or they recycled some funds because they got a quick return or something like that. So we can deploy like one or 2 around. Something really excited about you. They'll carve out like a little bit of reserve to go your way, or they'll pull. They'll do a capital call early. They'll do a slight like the short close early for the next month, you know. Try to deploy capital really excited.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So yeah, sometimes you might get struck along a little bit by some of the funds that are raising their restaurant. But the tell from the as you talk to them is like you have to happen before now or by when it's sometimes we won't be ready until June. Right? And you're like, Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: awesome. Straight on. Yeah. What's your deployment calendar schedule? What do you have left like you can talk to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is that yeah? Great question. Actually, I'm happy to answer this now, because I don't think we cover this until later on in this process. But,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The answer is one of the like biggest mistakes that founders tend to make is they think it's important to go to the top
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as soon as possible.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's not the case. So I say, this is somebody who's work I worked at, you know, 4 different Vc. Before tech start. And the 1st one I worked at I was 20 years old. This is like 17 years ago, and I was the 1st line of defense. That was the analyst at this top in Chicago at the time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what's crazy was like if the CEO or founding team were either disrespectful to me or treated me like I wasn't anyone
Neal Sáles-Griffin: communicate to our GPS about like how they interact with me. And they would assess the drugs are found that would negatively impact how the partners thought about those companies, because how you treat anyone is how you treat everyone right? So they take that really, seriously. And my job is to be your champion.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So those junior people, you know, these funds.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They look like a hero. If they get you to those partner meetings.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So all of a sudden, they're motivated to like be bought into you because they're gonna look great if you make their job. So the big thing there with the junior people is that you have an opportunity to kind of like. Give them all of the talking points that they need to advocate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that's not where it stops. You have to kind of have a web strategy where you're also building up potential warm enforcement at the right time, so don't do it all at once for the firm. Get that inroad. You get one of the junior person. You realize there's some interest as a fit, and then you figure out who knows, partner? So leading into the partner, meeting or conversation. Then you tee up the warm reference, call the side or the follow up afterwards, or the referral or the back channel referral.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a lot of different ways to like play that game. Yeah, can I add to that? Yeah, I mean, I also started an adventure like as an associate, and I end up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: getting promoted to principal. And that was literally because I brought in good deal, and I. We had a meeting every Monday, and you know, as the junior person in the fund, like your role is to present everything that you've seen this the past week. Every Monday morning we had a meeting, and I. It was an hour or 2 h whatever, and I literally went through every company I talked to cons. I like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talked about the market, whatever. So I like I was, and if someone left a good impression on me. Oh, my gosh! My dream was that someone would leave a good impression on me. You know my nightmare is that like every Monday they're like, come back next week like I wanted to that Monday meeting to be like, Wow! Sylvia's like really crushing it. And so, like, Neil said, like, you're going to be such a good. They're going to be such good advocates for you, if you're you know you have a really good pitch.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you're able to be really clear about your value prop and your business. I mean, they're going to be like so excited to talk to you, and they're so excited to present to the partners about it. So like me, I'd say I wouldn't worry about that too much. I would just worry about keeping your pitch really good and making sure your traction is on point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that you're in a really good place, and like you'll move up like through the leverage warm intros
Neal Sáles-Griffin: extensively throughout it. No matter what that being said, there is one other point I will make, though, Alex. That kind of reinforces your question and concern there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The deals that I've seen get done the fastest on the best terms have been the ones where.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as a partner at the fund, who is tracking down with
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like that Monday meeting is still talking about. We'll hear like they'll say, like, Hey, like I wanna have like, Give me a meeting with Spot here. I hear that they're they're moving quickly, and we need to be. We need to make sure that we don't miss out on that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's the deals that, like the ones that almost get away. That are the best. But the way to do that is actually counter to most of what we're sharing with you here, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's those are the founders that know what they have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like. They know that they have something good, and they're trying to decide who they're willing to entertain exactly right? So my thesis as an investor is actually to shape more companies to be in that position, because I'll tell you my story over the weekend, but I kind of had a little version of this myself where I reached out because I worked in venture for a while, so I knew all the venture people and I started a company, and I said, Hey, all venture people are gonna need money.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And they, there was no evidence that what I was doing work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they kind of like strung along the due diligence for many months, and no one ended up committing. So I ended up saying, screw it. I'm gonna ship it, anyway. And it worked.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I didn't need anything. And as soon as I didn't need it, and everybody heard about my traction what was going on?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's when all the term sheets showed up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll tell you the rest of the story later. But, like it was a really cool eye, opening experience for me to understand what it's like to be the one that everyone wants, but then to no longer need them. And then, all of a sudden, you're dictating. That is the best feeling in the world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool. Okay, alright. Let's talk mindset. So I don't know if you want to say anything here
Neal Sáles-Griffin: mean just to even be more blunt. Like most people say it sucks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There are some crazy people who enjoy it like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay, so much so, and you can bug him about this, too. But he's he designed a game
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like he actually turned fundraising to a game points for certain actions and takes and words, and like a whole built out like really cool system, I'm actually going to like extract it and turn it into an actual game for my. So I'm working with them on that on the back end, which is cool. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: don't know if I can emphasize this, enough guys like you're you. Most people don't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just understand? Like you're gonna go through the part that's frustrating, because what you love is building your business. What you don't. Love is convincing people that your business good, even though you know it's good, you know you believe, and they don't
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right. So it kind of is a shitty feeling to go all right. I have to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: probably no fewer than 200 interactions with venture, you know, capitalists over a period of 6 months
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to get the capital commitment for the firm.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, I just want to restate. What I just said
Neal Sáles-Griffin: over 200 interactions on average is how much it takes to close around. Typically
Neal Sáles-Griffin: now, that can be as low as 50,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it can be more than 2, much more than 200 depending on where you're at how you position yourself and how prepared. Just understand? Like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I hear from founders coming out of. And they're like, Oh, this sucks like it's not going. Well, what's happening? I'm like, how many meetings do you have? They're like 20,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'm like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, that's the bad news like you got a long way to go. So you have to have really thick skin because you're gonna get rejected 95 to 99%.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay? So it's not a good feeling doesn't make people happy. But some of us be, you know, some of us. Actually, it's it's super frustrating. And you have to prepare for that, because, like what Neil said. You just want to sell like you just want to do what you're doing. You just want to be able to create and iterate and build right like like this is almost like a side thing that you just like to do in order to keep going. So it's really annoying to like, have a customer call and have all the contract, and then a Vp. Call in the middle of the day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you just have to do it. You have to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have to power through and keep the faith and remain positive. And you know, with all the program and all these workshops like, you'll be in a good spot to put yourself in the best you know, position and what won't be covered here that you'll get from me every single day that we talk is like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm a bootstrapper at heart.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and even if you take capital, if you have the mindset of a bootstrapper, it gives you armor because all of a sudden you can take or leave any deal, or any meeting, and in the same way, like there's a dating analogy coming out, but like in the same way that, like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know your worth.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: These pick up on that, too. So they know the founders who are like going around like begging for commitment and like you need it and are desperate. And then the people who are like, Hey, like All right. So what do you bring this? You want to work together. I know my worth. I want to make sure your capital and your resources are worth being on my business right? So the founders who are like inserting themselves and challenging Vcs in that way. The way that you guys challenge us when we want to commit to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's a really good time that gets us more excited to work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he said, that let's wait until the program ends.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they are looking for probably some traction from this program, at least, what is your recommendation here?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It depends. So that's good that the Vc. Said that you will hear that from a lot of them. And the reason why is because they're interested in your belt.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? Okay? All right, you're here. We're doing. That's great. Tell me how about 3 months from now? Curious to see what you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there are some that you probably want to get on the radar of them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So if somebody are seeing if there are more connections, and at least finding a way to have a touch point, or an inroad, or make them aware of your presence, so that they have the contrast of where you're at today versus when you actually want to have a conversation that makes sense. But most of them will prefer to see what happens.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, I don't know if that's the time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they said, like every time it would be reached out. They were like, Yeah, no, not right now. And once they decided they do like 50 or 60 meetings in like one or 2 weeks, so very intensive. And they raised like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they created photo and stuff like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is that so? Because you you're always like, from what I've heard it always talking about like more 6 months. So I don't know if that's a good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, it is so. What I'm talking about is the actual timeline, which is all the things you need to do to be prepared for fundraising the actual series of meetings that you're talking about. We do advise a highly concentrated strategy. So, for example, your program ends in June.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So right after New York tech week for those people that go. Usually what's good is between now and June. You're gonna get some Vcs either interested or you're gonna be interested in them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you concentrate your interactions to, let's just say the mid like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: middle of June from the end of that month
Neal Sáles-Griffin: most founders that end up, succeeding quickly with their rounds. Have a high concentration of anywhere from probably 2050, I mean hundreds from the New York program mentioned the other day he had a founder who did 60.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's crazy, but there's ways to do it. But you have to have this stuff. You want to fundraise or need to fundraise.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They line their stuff, meaning like they're not quite ready. So they drag out lots of meetings and conversations because they're constantly trying to prove themselves. They're getting a lot of push back. And it's not really like that. So the ones you're talking about are,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the data is a little biased because it's like the survivors. The people who made it through, the people you don't hear from are the ones they get dragged.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I have a very close friend, we did that like they really just for like 2 weeks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like insane hours, 2 weeks, we're just gonna close this around.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're going to talk to a million investors, and that's it, like, I don't have time for anything more. But, like what Neil said, they went into that with a killer deck. They went in with an amazing pitch. They went in with like mind blowing, you know, traction and tech, and a really strong team like it was like very high caliber, so I'd say, like the step before, that is to always be really honest with yourself like, is this the right time for me to be fundraising your business, because I think you know a lot of like if you don't fundraise, just fundraise. It has to be really like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: thoughtful around kind of your plans with the money in addition to like, when is the best time to put your best foot forward? Basically. But if you are super super strong. Yeah, like 2 weeks. That's it. And I I recommend that usually I've recommended that to founders. I think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like what Neil said. If you're like fundraising, and 3 calls this month. 2 calls next month. 6 calls a month, I mean. Oh, my God! It's such a waste of time for your business, and you're going to be so exhausted and turned out, I would say, try and do it all
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like short amount of time, if possible, but that requires you to put in a ton of work. That's my experience.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But in both my 1st bullet no 2 races are the same. So everyone's got a different variation to the story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's always gonna be exceptions. I always learn new things, and people have different experience for how they exceed. So one good example is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you saw Jlo with the 1.3 million commits right out of nowhere. And then you saw Alex and Gavin, who have a quarter of them right, and they had to get like legal and done. They had like piece that together with lots of smaller commitments. So there's very different outcomes depending on where you're at
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But one mistake, I see a lot is like founders who get agitated or frustrated, that people aren't committing almost as if this is owe them money.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is crazy, because in my mind I'm like, put yourself in their shoes, but their job, like is contingent on making the right choices in the best possible outcome. So it's not like it's an offense or an affront to you. We didn't do our job as founders to persuade this Vc. To say, yes, that's end of story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's less about them being a jerk, or you know us not being happy with how they communicate and respond they are who they are, and it's on us to decide if they're the right person for us to try to be happy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's earned, not owed and again, like, I remember yesterday, we clapped because of the fundraising. That's good, but it's almost like, what are you clapping for now? The hard part starts. So it's like, okay, this is good, like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what have we done? We've just gotten some money that's not actually success. That's just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that is so important. You guys like, I think a huge mistake I've seen with founders is like fundraising is such a core part of like their business and their problems and their thoughts. And it's just taking up so much space. Your main focus is your customers. You're building for customers. You're building an awesome company, and you want to, you know, build for your customers. And that's that's basically it. The Vc is just like, Oh, yeah, yeah, like, we did this. It was really annoying. Whatever we had annoying conversations. And now we're done like it's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's not like a goal. Necessarily. It's just like a step stone along the way to get you to your goals, and I think that's the mindset I so recommend taking from, especially like all of our fundraising like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: keep that in your mind, and don't forget that. Yeah, so quick, poll in the room. What do you all think makes?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, from the experience. At least, I would say, like you were talking to some like basic free revenue for us. What type of traction they are looking for in bank like this? I'm like, free revenue is like everything, basically. But even for that it was somehow like frustrating. That's our favorite thing you said. That's literally our favorite thing to say. All of us like, I'm telling you investors like too early.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What we mean is, I have not seen anything that compels me to want to move forward with you. Tell me later, if you actually figure something
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes they need it. So if they do mean too early, it could be well, technically speaking, we can only invest when you're ready to take a million dollars, and you're only raising half right, or we only invested the series. A. So you're talking to the right, to the wrong investment, but it's not even time for us to consider. But it's good to know and keep in touch. Right? That is a legitimate tool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The other 2, early, though, is, they're the perfect fit for you. You would otherwise be a great investment, but they don't believe in something, and either they're not telling you, or they're not willing to tell you yet.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And that happens that happens more than the 1st part.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I think that the environment's also changed, like, I do think like 10 years ago, what 3 seed and seed investing was isn't really what it is today, like, I don't think your 1st check is necessarily even see what's expected from teams. I'm sure you can talk a lot more about this, too.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Me, I think it's the the mental and emotional tone like I've done just one race so far. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you guys don't come from like a sports background. So I've always been like confidently sell to us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think that 1st one was the 1st time that I was like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: shit like I got self doubt and experience. It's just.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think the amount of knows you get the amount of like your business is shit, but like no, I don't think this will work. It's just like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know 90 people telling you you're doing the wrong thing. It's not gonna work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It doesn't feel good like again. The dating analogy. If you have to go like out and just like pitch yourself to a bunch of people, and they're all like. No, no.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's how it is. But the other thing I thought of was the story told last night. He's like in the what is it called gate. Yeah. So he's in the stargate like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's even before fundraise. Yeah. So I remember, I got a call from Jake
Neal Sáles-Griffin: again like this is like a month or so ago. He's starting off with a fundraising, and it was almost like that where he was talking to me about getting ready, almost like he was preparing for America, you know, like I'm getting in prep, like we're doing like we're talking to, but the way he thought about it, and I know how good his business is now. Good he is. So he's 1 of the best that we have yet. Even he's got the jitters even. He's a little nervous and anxious, and like he's like thinking about all right. How do I take the right approach here to do this in the best possible way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the level of preparedness. If you stumble into it, if you kind of don't take it as serious enough like, if you kind of think that all right, I just need to fundraise. Let's go. And it's like the shovel, and you're just all over the place. Your bed isn't made, and your to do's are scattered, and you just don't have your life together.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Those don't end up well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it's more of a desperation play than it is a systemic, actually meticulously planned strategy where you have like an endpoint.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's the level of like preparedness that we wanted to like chisel for you guys, and that's in part with techstars, delivers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just record. So again, don't rush.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you're half in, you shouldn't be in at all. We're gonna over. Prepare you. So you should feel over prepared. And we're gonna give you an actual process that you will modify to whatever is unique about your business strategy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And one question, how should we know investors are really serious, like, there is a money that we are talking about like in the background. So some of them I heard actually like, there is no money, basically. But they want to have like this ongoing discussion like in the future. If there's something happened in the future, then they would be ready for that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How should we respond? Is it something we have to be
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like? It happens all the time. It happens all the time, like one of the another. Huge mistake that you could make is writing off an investor because they said no to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They will come back if you continue. I'm telling you like you'd be amazed like it's like a like a you know. It's like a weird kind of arc where, like, there's a return, you know, it's like Lord of the rings, or something like that Gandalf showed like there's a whole thing where somebody is gonna like, come back if you continue to grow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And you you think that person would never be your friend. You don't like. Some of them are very strange, and like they might be a little rude or very critical like you'll never succeed, and then end up wanting to join, you know, on your next round, but I've seen that happen before, so I I would definitely recommend. Try not to burn bridges unless they're an actual athlete.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like if there's somebody you just really don't like for a legitimate reason, like, let us know, because we need to keep that in mind to advise our founders as well, we can set kind of a support because there are bad Vcs out there who make bad decisions, join boards of companies, and to influence the outcomes of those businesses in ways that are not founder friendly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. But let me. Let's just say I have a great list.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So like, I'll flag a few things. My list is really strong
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from the Midwest Network, because I've been in Chicago and doing there for almost 20 years. So I know that really well. So there are a few people that be like, you don't want that person's money out here, I'm learning, and I'm building a larger network. But we have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a lot of tech starts companies that are in the air along like not just mine, but like over the history of techsars for the past 1520 years. So I think, like one thing that we want to get good at as a group is identifying the companies that are located in today that you all can build a connection with. Some of them are coming tonight. But then, beyond that, there's a lot of later stage companies
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that have some of these Vcs on their cap tables, that when the time is right and you're in conversation with the Vcs. We can like Broker some introductions to learn more about. How did it go? Have they been a good investor to you? That kind of thing?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that's how clear are you all in your due diligence.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're doing great. This is. This is exactly what we want to cover. But again, it's it's it's choreographed. It's it's fine. It's very rigid is it's structured in a way that I think you've been emphasizing a lot. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the half in trade off, because some of you will end up doing it is, it will take extremely long.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Your context switching becomes
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like it'll burn you out because all of a sudden you're talking every single day between having fundraising conversations and then having to work on the business and whatnot. So one strategy that a lot of founders take up is the team rallies behind the CEO to give the CEO more time to spend on fundraising, and they are entrusted to take care of the business operations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the CEO ends up almost full time focusing on fundraising for a very short, condensed period of time. That's been the most consistently effective. It's not the only way to do it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: For nutrisense which Antonio was talking about yesterday. That's my 1st investment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're worth over a million dollars now. They're making probably 4 or 5 million revenue a month now got 100 employees. Dan is CEO.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He was not the CEO. When they went to Techsoft
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he became the CEO. I think. Last year, 3 or 4 years in the business, and it was clear Alex, who was the CEO,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was technical, focused on product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Dan was the CEO at the time coo at the time, and he was the one doing the fundraise. He was the one meeting Mr. Manager. He was the one doing a lot of the stuff so that Alex could focus on product, and inevitably that led to like a little bit of an awkward circumstance because the more business grew, they had more board meetings, more strategic Vcs on the cap table, bigger executive meetings.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It was kind of like, Okay, well, who's doing what? Here?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? He's leading product. But you're having all the fundraising conversations, leading business trying to be. You know. This like that would make this make sense so long. Story short, it makes sense for Danny to come. See it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I just say all that. Say not. You need to follow the playbook, but just know, like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: CEO, almost like 99% of time drives this process. And it's responsible for having these conversations and getting stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So question here. So from your perspective, when do you see a company should be shut down like, if there are some really coming to paper, let's say yesterday we had some discussion about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: does it make sense. It's better to like, shut down the business. So what is your interesting? Okay? So I know we're skipping the line here conversationally. But I don't mind. The thing is, you're asking a question that doesn't come up until 6 months after program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. But I'm gonna answer right now, because I do this all the time. This is what I do like. I take those calls all the time, not all the time, but like not what happens is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the biggest mistake you can make is calling someone like me when you have 2 months left
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which get those calls and like how much cash you got. Oh, I got, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 20 K. In the bank. I mean what you burn 10 K.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Well, shit. This isn't work. I have a couple of backup strategies for people that have that situation, and it has worked. So one is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: icebox. So pause the business, freeze the business, maintain your promise to whoever your customers are. Let's buy ourselves some time. Let's find a way for you to earn revenue externally, separately. Are you okay? Personally, like, I make sure everyone's all good that kind of thing. The other thing you can do is some people have to provide for family, and then something comes up. That's the situation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sometimes I help founders find someone else to take over their business
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, because you still have a ton of upside. But you did all this work. Don't just like delete it right. Find someone to carry your progress forward. That's totally viable way to do it. And there's some really smart people that would love to build your progress and learn from you, even if you have to take care of some other important obligation. That's cool, too. And there's another one I have, like 3 or 4 in my playbook, but bottom line is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the saddest moment for me is when I don't hear from a founder, and then all I hear from is like, Hey, I'm sure you got my company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's the dissolution process? I'm like we could have done so many things to keep this thing alive. Had you only reached out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So that would be my. I love that. You asked that question because I don't think I get a chance to say that. Yeah, can I please double check on that like, if anyone does feel like their runway is running too low, and we can talk about what that means.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Talk to Neil. Don't, don't, don't not say anything. Don't! Don't wait right. Talk to, because, like Neil said, like you can't really we can't like do so much if you're like we have 2 weeks left. Can you introduce me to like these 2 investors that in recent like, I mean, we get those asked, and it's kind of like, look like, no like it's not going to go anywhere. I mean, just talking to investors alone could take a month, right like, you know. So I think it's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, any at that point. Also, it feels like you're in obviously a little bit more of a desperate mindset. You're not going to be on your end game, maybe, even if you are like, you don't have enough time to run the process like I think what the last slide said is a choreograph which I love because, like this is, show this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like you are doing a performance. This has to be tight. It has to be rehearsed, and it has to be really like process oriented. This is not just blah blah! Let's have some talks. See what happens, and I expect those of you that enjoy that I hate. It's not my favorite way to spend time. I like being nerdy and technical and giving you all that stuff, but I will do what I have to do to make sure that progress that I want to make in the business. I want to succeed gets done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we do what we gotta do. So that's what our company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Yeah, sure, 2 months is too short. 6 months, 6 months makes sense. Whatever number you tell me that you think you're gonna do like, how long you think it's gonna take you to be 3 months like, okay, so 6.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Or if you say, if you say 4 months, I'm like, Okay, so 8 double whatever number it is, at least.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Are you talking about runway, though, or about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: At what point, if you think you had the chance of running a runway? At what point?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How how long? From that strategy of 3 different tiers one is like, if you actually accomplish your fundraise. The other one is like a a cut strategy, meaning like we're like, all right, we have to reduce our burn. We have to make really difficult tradeoffs, and we have to make adjustments to our business model so that we're in a position that allows us to stay alive as long as possible to figure this out. And then the unfortunate final part is like, All right. How do we like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: pick up the pieces here because it's probably gonna fall apart. So now we just have to do what's right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you'll learn more about that next week. We have a couple deep
Neal Sáles-Griffin: personal stories that are not going to be recorded that will get into the nitty gritty of what that looks like and what those trade offs might be
Neal Sáles-Griffin: until next Wednesday and Thursday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that's a great question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't know if you also track or runway as well, somehow, or it's not within this scope. Actually. So we provide you with this information.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, yeah. So throughout the program, yes, what I'm talking about is post for yeah. Some- some of you all are gonna be trained. And every month we're gonna know where you're at and how it's going. And you're gonna send out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be surprised. But sometimes people don't want to send out an update saying I've got 2 months left. I'm running out of cash.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I need help. Things aren't going well. I'm not getting any customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, that's not a fun update to share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's why we did the Sydney Pillar updates workshop on day one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But it's the more you communicate with us, the more we can step in before it's a problem cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright so ready to go. So business strategy, traction investment, you know that stuff. You've done it all for tech starts process. We'll work with your pitches. We started that yesterday. We've got a toolkit and we have our own kind of special data room curriculum. That is not techsart wide. But we built out in our program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They just hit me up last week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because now they're interested because they've been hearing about it amongst founders in the network. Whatever said, Hey, here in San Francisco, it's got this data room curriculum. And we can we get that? So I said, Sure, but you have to promise me before you ship it out to everyone. You let me clear, because there's things that we
Neal Sáles-Griffin: do in a certain way that I don't think I would recommend for every program or every test company to do but like focus on, based on my thesis. For how I chose you all we advise you guys to compare, and it may or may not carry over to the larger market invest the pipeline. We talked about that in those resources and then go. So this is when we're gonna do the type timeline thing, Alex that you were asking about. So that's a big like pattern we've seen to be successful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then David Cohen's workshop, I think, is 2 weeks from now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you guys know what is like. The the one on the calendar is somewhere. We'll figure it out, whatever that is. That talk is legendary.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's given that talk for every single program
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like that. We've run like every program that I've run. He's come to give that time like, virtually.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And not only that, you get a bonus one from them because he's physically coming here. He just sent me an email this morning to confirm the details. But he'll be here April second.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you'll meet him in person. And he asked
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for 2 h with you guys which I love.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So he was like, Yeah, it's like, so 90 min is okay. But I prefer 2 h, because it's usually usually runs long, and then he's gonna do a dinner after our event with him, with the larger aluminum
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, yeah, question on like, ask for intros in the last bit. Right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How does this fit in with the whole networking?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know if that's something that you should do early, which is early.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I have. This is my opinion. Okay? So I don't know if there's no systemic kind of conclusion of this as a response team. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my opinion is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there are some heroes. There are some key like people like for me. It was like Jason Free was my job. I was like, I want him in on my business. I ended up earning him as an investor, right? Which is ironic because he hates investment, is not a fan of Vc. And doesn't even believe in. But that was the person who I really wanted. There's probably 5 or 10 people like that for each of them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where they have capital, they could be an angel, or they might be a strategic investor or something like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Those people. It's a long play, in my opinion, like you're not gonna get an intro to them and like win their favor and like you win instead, it's gonna be a slow drift
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of touch points where they ignore you until they're ready to notice you. My advice. That's where my advice is hard, which is like those killer people that everyone's gonna ask, how did you get them on your table? And you're like, well, this is not a mistake. This is a ridiculous plan took me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Probably I don't know. It's 4 or 5 months
Neal Sáles-Griffin: before he replied to my emails because I would email him on a regular cadence and like, give him updates because I met him once I got his email. He ignored me, but I just didn't care. And I persisted politely until he came.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's people like that. If you all can like pull that off and I'll help you with that strategy. Separate are the big pipeline that you're gonna get access to from us and from fellow founders. And you're gonna have a strategy of like your tier ones, your tier twos and your tier 3. And based on that, my advice
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sacrificial pancake. So I like to abuse that network in a way where I'm gonna start off by meeting who, I think are probably gonna say no, and I don't really give a shit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because if I screw it up with them, who cares like? It's not even that bad. Has anyone seen the movie bike club?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay? So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know. If you remember this in the movie, what do you mean like, I'm old bro like, I promise. So at the end of the day, though, like what happens in that movie is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he sends people out to go start a fight and to what
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to lose. Remember this, he goes, go out and get into a fight and lose. That's a weird thing to advise somebody to do, but that's kind of what I'm talking about here. It's like, I know, you're gonna get rejected. But I want you to go feel like, go feel what that's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Get that, you know, off of you get knocked off the rust. Figure out how to talk about your company or assemble of your words. Wrong? You're gonna make something up. All those things happen right? Get all that out of the way on people that you think you can sacrifice. And maybe when you get better. You come back. And you're like, Wow, talk to a different person. It's a completely different company every now, and you pull it off
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right. But that's a good thing to get into the habit. So, Carlo, the other thing that happens is like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you, you start to have an initial list. You end up, realizing that there are some pieces you didn't know about, you didn't find, and you don't have a connection to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Those are where people I need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I can open up doors to some of those folks, so I'll give you an example. I just got progress this morning. There's a pretty famous person that Jake
Neal Sáles-Griffin: reached out to me I don't know 3 weeks ago, said, Hey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is a big ask. So what do you need? He says. Well, you don't know this person but David Coleman.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I was hoping that he would ask him if he would introduce me to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a tall ask right? So I'm not gonna reach out to the CEO Tech service on a regular basis. And hey, get my founder up? Because if you did that for every program that would be impossible.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I will say this morning at 6 Am.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It came through because I asked him right after. Jake said that, and I framed it. And I very patiently asked, because of all the other inputs and evidence I have of Jake. I knew it was gonna make. It's gonna work, and they would be willing to say yes because of who Jake was, where his business is at, and we were in alignment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So again, I sell, tell you that story, not to promise that I'll do that for everybody, because I can't all the time, if you come correct, got the stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll get it done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Have to be prepared. That's the 2 gotta be really prepared.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright cool. Got it?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Heard that some partners were saying, Yeah, yeah, we've got some people connected.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is David Cohen's workshop. This is what he. This is. This is the sweet science of the work. So I love this because it's not that it's not true. It's just that there's nuance to what a commitment means.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so I'll let him get into it properly, because he says it better than I ever could. But the simple answer is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're gonna train you all to get commitments with conditions, because that is still momentum.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so let's just say you get a commitment, but it's not on the terms you prefer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but you get a commitment, but it's not the amount that you need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's still humid.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So commitments to get commitments. And there is phone. So the idea is that when you secure a commit from someone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're only gonna hold that commitment like them to that commitment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you meet their you know terms.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or later on, as you get other commitments.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you go back to the person that you have a different set of terms with you say, Hey, have these other commitments? But the terms are different slightly, not from what we discussed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'd love to keep your commitment, but we won't hold you to it, obviously because you can do different terms. But if you are willing to, we have all these other people who are down for this other part.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think it's important to never lie in these meetings. Obviously it's not lying. But I'm saying just in general, like a piece of broader advice do not lie, everything really direct
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, and because people will find out San Francisco small, the venture community is really small and like when I was on the other side of this, like I used to do, really in depth, diligence, like like really in depth. And I would like back channel. And I talked to employers and all this just to collect more data. So if you lie about anything like they'll find out. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's just like that's so unnecessary to have that stain on your business when it's already awesome, like, well, just think about the screw. Yeah. Put yourself in their shoes. We're. I'm seeing thousands of companies a year.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have to invest in 10 or 20
Neal Sáles-Griffin: out of thousands that I look at. So if I'm going to invest in those. I'm going to go deep and make sure that we're making the right bets, and you better believe that the Vcs. At the next level in the next year are going to go even right? So that's important. That being said
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this, the notion of a commitment like we say, like someone's committed at 5
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, I'll commit to the 5 new cap.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But then you get other commitments that are over the 10.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You go back to the 5, and you say? Hey, look, we got 500 k. At 10. You want to put in a hundred at 5. It doesn't make sense anymore for us to follow through on this investment. If you can match the 10, you'd be good. But it's we totally understand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is that reasonable? So that's basically what it is. But there's much more like details and strategy that we'll get into in a few weeks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We got somewhere to get their moments.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So we have 30 more minutes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. So none of this stuff is a surprise to you, but kind of seen all this before you got to have the stuff, and we have a few objective kind of assessment modules that will tell you. Do I have the tracking that I need? Do I have a go to market plan that makes sense. Am I conveying my competitive landscape? And there's the soft side, and there's the objective side. The soft side is more of where you all are at as far as stage of business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a version of this that becomes way more scientific at a later stage. So series. And beyond. We're running very objective, like analysis at the Vc level, to determine which businesses are even viable, to have a conversation with
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this space for you all. It's not just over yourself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? Because your business like in the metrics, no one has, like exceptional progress in that regard. So you all have to be more performative and get people excited and like they have to buy into the team the CEO. They know your model is probably wrong, you know. It's going to change. They know your traction is going to kind of be volatile. So we already have those expectations in space. So it's not as much about that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, that's not
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. The amount of money you want to raise. I assume it's really connected to cash flow right? So you have some understanding of cash flow. So how is this piece of attraction comes to play like like, I'm just curious if there are some kind of rule of thumb, let's say, if you have like 50 K. You sold your probably like 50 K. And then, just curious like, if that fraction has the capability to help you to raise like let's say 10 million, for instance. So there has to be some kind of like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know rule of thumb, some connection between traction and also how much your business has the capability to raise basic.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I pointed at the financial model. Because this is the story you're gonna have to tell. And you all got an intro to that training from Troy last week, and we're gonna go even deeper and further, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what you're literally gonna have to do in all of your conversations is like, talk them through the journey and the trajectory of how your business actually utilizes their capital, and if you can show the story, and it's exciting, and it's up into the right in a reasonable and compelling way, the like. The what you're asking about becomes scientifically like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: demonstrable like. You can demonstrate what it looks like and show them different scenarios and how it plays out. That's how we do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I guess founders at this stage don't have that rigor
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the financial modeling component of techstars. Now, that's now system wide was actually, I don't say proprietary to techstar. But Troy. The person you met was the managing director in Chicago, and we did it that way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was Troy student in 2,008 at Northwestern university. So I got really lucky because I met the guy before he was doing investment like he wasn't an investor. He was an operator, so I knew him before he did all this stuff. So I've seen it over the past, you know, 17 years or so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And just this past year Techstar is adopted.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That methodology and framework system one. But the really good programs have been doing this a long time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as we've done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's I think, your competitive advantage here. Most founders that aren't in programs like techsars don't have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the rigor or discipline at this stage to take it as seriously as we train.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I guess my ask is, take the financial modeling component of what we're asking very seriously.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The rewards will like, be very like, problem, yeah, fucking.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Add to that one like, but I don't mean from like an investor point of visit. Understand? I think cash a little bit better not to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: think about how much money to get in. It's not so much like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I need to raise this money, so I can like get loads and loads from loads of customers. But it's like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I built this, how much more like wallet share? How much more money would that one customer give me like we would go from
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 5 K. Spend to like 25 k. Span. I think that's what I saw is like if we added, when we added a few components of platform
Neal Sáles-Griffin: our clients actually spend by 5 months like, how much money am I gonna need now to unlock another portion of wallet share difference? Right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that helped me just understand my sense like resolution.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, the other big mistake that I I noticed is that founders treat this like homework
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it kind of sucks for some people. Oh, spreadsheets! I know somebody here loves it right looking back at you guys. But like, I'm sure some people appreciate this. Some people feel like it's a drag.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think it's such a huge mistake to not be excited about financial modeling, because it's literally how you're gonna make a ton of money and be successful with your business. So why wouldn't you like not lean into understanding like the dials and the levers in your business that are gonna influence the outcome that you're building the company for so for me, even though it's uncomfortable, even though I didn't feel confident in understanding how it all worked technically and like the numbers, and the math was overwhelming. At 1st
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I overcame all of those barriers because I wanted my business to work, and I wanted to understand it really well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so it wasn't even for Vc. It was for me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because the more I understood the inputs and outputs of my business and its performance, and how well I could predict what would happen, the more effective I got and making important business decisions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it became a second brain.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So no longer was it in my head, or just me and my co-founders negotiating or talking about, we think, makes sense. There was an objective place for us to run scenarios to determine which decision makes sense based on which inputs and assumptions. And it forces me to be honest about where I'm actually spending my time and money
Neal Sáles-Griffin: don't?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I had a question about opportunity slash market.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So see that the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: well, last time I tried to fundraise compared last time I was fundraising a lot of the discussion was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: about like what I was trying to do with a lot of my mentors tried to guide me on with one thing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: focus on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When I was pitching a large vision it was too ambiguous and too hard to be like, how is this like big enough, or how is this solving any individual problem like, What's your strategy? And then when I went too low, it was like, right, this isn't big enough. Right? So yeah, I guess I guess the question I had is like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then when I showed the steps the next time I showed like, All right, this is, here's q. 1. They a lot of the pushback was like, I mean, I think there's other problems. And there's a lot of problems. But one of the other one of the main things there was also kind of like. They felt it would take too much time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to get to that market side. That was really good. When you say too much time, how do you interpret that? What do you think they mean? Empathize, empathize, put yourself in their shoes. Why would they say it takes less about actually what I was saying and more about the team like me at that time. Being alone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Get to that. Yeah, let's get the team together to get to those
Neal Sáles-Griffin: milestones that even though I'm aggressive, and even though I work super hard, or whatever it is, it doesn't really matter. You can't put stuff on paper and expect it to come true. I think that that was my interpretation is that there is more of a
Neal Sáles-Griffin: lack of belief in those milestones being true, then.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I don't know. I'll give you one more piece, because there's 1 very common part there that I hear when too much time comes up in Vc. Conversations which is on our end, we actually have constraints. So we need to make bets that have some sort of reasonable timetable for a return, or at least progress, because I have to use your progress to raise my next phone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so if and that's truly some of them will say it. Some of them won't. But I hope you guys understand what I'm getting like. The whole idea is that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: year over year. I need to demonstrate that my portfolio is increasing about Ir. So I'm demonstrating over time that all of my investments are increasing and being better, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I need you to continue raising capital to demonstrate that so that there's markups things like that. I don't like that. I don't prefer it. I think it's perverse, because it's not. It's more about what I need as a Vc. And less about what you need as a founder, whether it's good for you to fundraise or not. I'm trying to get you to do that so that I can continue to run my fund and raise my capital.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There are some great Ecs that will be honest with you, if that is their concern. They were super honest, they were like, look, the problem is, in some way. It was like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we think maybe you could get there in like 3 years. But that's too far for us, like in like 3 to 5. Some will tell you other reasons for why, but to answer your question with opportunity. Market is too small, but I slightly disagree with techstars on this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm more on Yc side on the side. And I'll tell you why. What I've heard in interacting with some of those folks is, they'll say the small market thing is actually a bit of a red hair, meaning like false like idea, because even if you have a small market now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you have the right level of thinking about it. You can expand that market, or you can expand to other markets. Yes, exactly. So, just to be clear, though this is how decisions get made, and how people think, and you will get written off from even the 1st meeting, because they don't perceive your market to be big enough.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All that says to me is that you, as a founder, you do a better job of demonstrating your market potential or your market expansion.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have failed to convey the opportunity beyond the small market that would initially be seen.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, how do you balance immediate focus to like a long term focus, to not show that you're like distracted focus on too many things. It's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for example, us right now, we're on a production like the Content production side
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on a slightly longer term mission, which is not like 5. So it's like, Look, we're here. But don't see it here just here. There's like it's an entry step to like everything.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It depends on who you're talking to. So this is where the appendix slides come in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so the thing is that some people can only see what's in front of them as investors. Right? So what you see is what you get. What you pitch to me is what I'm imagining is possible. There's a few that you can kinda like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like suss out that they think bigger, and they can see well beyond where you're at. And for those people that unlock that level of thinking. You go deeper with them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? And that's where it gets fun, because on one hand, you want them to feel like. They're the hero in the story, like they're helping you come up with what makes sense. But you're already ready, like you're already ready to have that conversation because he's thought about the potential pathways.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you remember with Jake, I I mentioned this when you guys met him on that zoom call, he and I had a conversation about zest beyond click.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like we talked about it beyond just the platform for education. That became too large scope, right? That didn't make sense. It didn't resonate with. It was too much for him to bite off. So when you're asking about doing too much, not being focused when he and I were having those conversations that was encouraging us. So he has to be focused on cooking. But within the realm of cooking is there a big enough market potential opportunity for him to talk about as like a progression. He has backup slides that he doesn't show it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He shows it to some people who are ready to go that far and go that deep. But again, you're gonna have to kind of feel your way around who is ready to have that deeper conversation about a true long term vision versus most of them who are going to want to see what you would treat as a mid to near term vision, but they would perceive that as the end, your 5 year outlook is different than a potential 7 to 10 year outlook of a much bigger vision.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Can I say something? I don't know if you guys remember when Neil and I interviewed you guys.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this may or may not have come up right like, what's your long term vision? Exactly. So I I think it's really good advice some people are. Gonna ask, some people are not. You should be really prepared, and you should go big like this is not like where you're like, you know. Oh, long term, you know, we want to expand from San Francisco to la like, that's not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's not big like we're talking about. You're redefining healthcare. You're changing the way doctors work. You're changing the way people in finance operate like, we're thinking, like, we want to see you as a total dreamer who's like going to take over. So I say, like, Yeah, whether it's well, I can give you another like back back of the room. Comment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: George, you and I this morning were excited about David before the founders got here. We're talking about. I'm excited. He's coming, and you said a compliment about him. You've seen him speak. What did you say?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He never like every word he said is says intentional, and it needs to be there, and there's nothing else you could have said very succinct. Yeah, he's very succinct, like to the point. Right. So when I raised this phone with him, when I raised 8 million dollars fund, I was like, Hey, like what are like the like, the key things like like, what's actually like the pattern, because he's invested in companies that are, you know, worth billions of dollars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And he had 2 very distinct points that he made, which I have like truly inherited into my own DNA as an investor. And it's those questions I ask you guys. So it's 2 things. One is, they need to be motivated to build a billion dollar business like you need to have alignment on that like that. That's 1 true path, like the people who have 1 billion dollar companies were motivated to do so relatively early like that, was it? So I scream for that. That's 1 of my key questions to you guys, but the other one
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is a healthy obsession with customer success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which I think you heard him say when he introduced himself to you all for the while, but it usually slips past people like they take it like, Yeah, yeah, it's good. No, you don't understand. Like those are the 2 things. There's a lot of other things that may or may not be true.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One thing that seems to always be true is that you're motivated to build a big business, and we're in alignment on that. And you are completely committed to the success of the customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so I just want to reinforce that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And again, like, I guess the last thing here is I've I've said this before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can be bad in all of this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you have a good business
Neal Sáles-Griffin: again, like I. Nutrisense is like my biggest and best company. So far
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they were not good at fundraising. They all the things I'm teaching you. They didn't do most of these things right at the beginning they got a lot of this wrong. They didn't take it seriously. They were so busy making money, that they were willing to make concessions and trade-offs on doing well here, because they could still get those meetings, because when they demonstrated traction, they showed what their business was. People still want to talk to them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, something we saw. Now that you guys, you guys are purposeful with that. And how do you make it bigger? But we saw some of us as we've spoken to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: no matter what you tell them first, st they say. But how do you make it bigger. You're not saying I'm the cure cancer, they say. But how do you make this bigger? They have this list of questions. And this is one of the questions they have. So what we found that helps is start with the narrow vision. What you're doing now and then over the course. Sometimes you let them ask. Don't tell them until they ask for at least later in your pitch and say, and then we go to this and then go to this, because for some people it seems great that they have a set of questions they have to go through, and that's the way they can look at, no matter how you present yourself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I might get in trouble by saying something like this, so we'll see. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my hot take on. That is like I feel like that's when you need to lean in and start willing to the investor. More because I'm like, you actually understand what this is like. You like I need to make sure like, if I'm taking your money, I need you to be telling and like not offense. No offense, but like to be clear.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is what I laid out, and what you're saying to me isn't matching up to what I'm laying out, and I think what I'm saying is true, and I have evidence for it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do you have?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I would call that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but not in a negative way, not in a confrontational way, but in a very polite, passive like. Let's make sure that we're talking about the same way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? Because I just gave you a huge market.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are you talking right? So there is like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: these are actually that smart. There's a there's a there's a top tier that are brilliant like exceptional. A lot of people just kind of found their way in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, they found their way in. So we're all trying to make it work and make it make sense. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're like. We're no better smarter than any of you, most of us, and most of the time you're smarter than us, as far as like, you know your market. You know your business better than we ever will.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so just understand. Now don't come in with arrogance. Don't do that because that is a bad sign, and most people will not resonate with that. No right wrong with me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This wouldn't be if they're working. But recognize that. Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: wanna share. I know that in our first.st
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I think it's still the event.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We were like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we weren't sure how much people need to talk to other investors. We kind of don't really know anything there was like halfway through. So we just like to turn on the questions that we think about. And it was like, really awesome because they're usually asking like privacy laws.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. Hey, there's certain regulations. And what about these competitors? And it's like that would be really impressive for us. Yes, so I know it's like you can. You can tell, like investors are super different. And like, you know, if people like, they'll just ask the questions that you think about, because they actually are interested for sure. Yeah, 100. And then. So I don't know if you notice, like the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the the good cop, bad cop dynamic. But Sylvia's diving in deep on each of you, and I have the same questions that I ask.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a strategy that's when we go in with that. I know what I'm gonna ask all of you consistently. And I know Sylvia is gonna customize the specific things. And then we also have the investment committee calling and other people that are dialing into each of the nuances of your business. Right? More
Neal Sáles-Griffin: knows what you're talking about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay? So we've we've covered that. You wouldn't be here if you didn't have a good answer to that top one, at least for me. But you need to have a good answer for the rest of them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, the the large market piece again. These are collected slides. I agree with this. You do need to have this because they need to present their case to the investment committee. And if you can't talk about the big enough market, you're probably gonna get written off.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can demonstrate what capital will do. Some people just want money. And it's like, Oh, yeah, because I got kids or I got a mortgage, or I got like people to hire. I'm like, it's not really a good reason to ask for capital for me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? You have to show me that you're you have a plan with levers of inputs that lead to certain outputs of performance and progress in your business that get me really excited and that you clearly have dialed in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The founders just want capital because they need it. Bad news, usually a really really bad sign. And you're not being particularly thoughtful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Not a good plan.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you want more than capital. You want strategic involvement. There's a reason that the firms and the individuals within those firms are going to be involved in your business because of their background, their experience, their track, record, their portfolio, other insights that you plan to leverage from make them feel good, even if
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's not like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like like enormous like value. Right? It could just be like one thing. But so long as there's something that you can say that goes beyond just the money that like puts you in a stronger position. Yeah, yeah, that was my kind of question, because I often hear that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: not there, and what it is, it's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: often tell me, like, yeah, they were breaking. That's a big difference. So is it something like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we say to the trial by position or an actual.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's impressive is when a founder shows up to a conversation with an investor, and it's clear that not only do they want to work with the firm, but they want to work with the person that they're having. That conversation in particular. No actually want to work with you, especially your firm, these people at it. But you. And here's why, when I hear a founder saying they know me, they know my background. They know why, it would be helpful to them, disproportionate relative to their other options of investors, and they thought about that. Oh, that is so impressive, because so few founders do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm telling you all. If you show up right, and you know who you're talking to, who you're going to room with, and you show them that you've done your homework in a way that like they couldn't believe.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Man, I've had conversations with some people, and it's actually usually not with founders. It's usually with more like professional people who want to work with me like I've done some other stuff, and the people who like ask me to participate in a venture or an activity or something. The things they know about me I'm like, how do you know that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like? How did you find that out. Has anyone heard of Nargwar? Do I know Nargwar, you know? Nargwar? Okay, you gotta look up Nargwar. Somebody posts about it. He's this weird guy from Toronto. But he interviews lots of like artists like like rappers and singers. Things like that. Watch one of his interviews. He knows things that freaks them out because they're always like, wait.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how do you know that? How do you like it freaks them out? If you do that to a Vc. Because you've done your due diligence, and you show that you show up properly. Oh, that is like exception. That's a top 1% behavior.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'm going to make sure all of you know how to do that. Yeah. Another question on that, outside of the obvious, obviously consuming everything that's publicly available on them and having your mutual connections were. How else do you go about that, or what targeted questions do you ask like this species is very ego driven? You stroke their ego. But this PC. Is very deep in the technicals. You need to go into that intervention.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It varies. But what I will say in the age of lots of AI tools. Opportunities are boundless.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like the level of research that you can go into. Now to understand. A person is all left to your imagination and creativity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's no excuse to not be over prepared for each of the conversations you're going into about these people and mentor madness is your trial run
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right. That's when you get to start, like with the initial impression, because they're not investors, they're here to help you. But if you show up to those meetings with a deep amount of thought and consideration. You're gonna blow their minds and they're gonna go holy shit like like they're gonna want to invest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've literally had that happen where I've had people coming out of mentor management. Say, like, Hey, I want to work for this company. Now, is that okay, I'm like, yeah, it's okay. Oh, we're gonna over. Prepare you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, it's kind of like a marketing job like, there's so many funds they're competing for a lot of the same kind of. So I think it really is on the investors. They do try and put out a lot of like posts and podcasts and Linkedin post and whatever. So there is a lot out there like per investor per fund.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So definitely leveraging business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know if this is good enough, but not in the past at least, but kind of like what we're looking for, basically trying to raise like the team that we want to bring on, put together. And then, like these are the we want to hit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's that good money like, do you like? What is what is a truly compelling slide of, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do you expect to accelerate your business with that? It's it's not a slide. It's in my opinion this is again selfish. My opinion. It's the second or 3rd meeting you have where you walk them through your financial model.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you get them excited about the inputs of their capital and the round you're raising, and how it's going to impact all the businesses that reinforce what you alluded to in your slides. But you're showing like, you know, like there's a way deeper like this is an ocean right? This is not a pond.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So again, Jake, you saw Jake's notion right? Jake has a high level 10 slide deck, high level. And by the way, you get a lot of commitments. Just with that information
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I raised the 8 million dollar fund, probably 6 out of the 8 million I raised without even sending a deck.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It was all conversations on Zoom, by the way, because it was during Covid.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's different. Lp, capital reputation whatever. That's a different thing. Or you're strong enough founder with the strong track record or right referrals, right? Confidence and metrics, so that you do get a lot of commitments there. But the ones who go deep
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are gonna go really deep. And that's where it's the most fun, and you need to always be ready to have that conversation with any of your investors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, like limiting in what you can say myself, to be better when it's like the in-depth thing. But like, get that initial spark? Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: debts. And I found those like structural like problem solution, or whatever a bit
Neal Sáles-Griffin: limiting or been like structuring. So is that, or do we have this whole sessions dedicated to this? Well, how many slides do you have in your pitch deck.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Try to keep it at 10 right? You want to guess how many
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I recommend, or I have for myself in the past
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like a hundred. Yeah. So here's what happens. I have the 10 slides just like you. And then I have. Well, sometimes it's memorized, sometimes like I have a little shorthand somewhere. But you guys know the trick with these decks. So like, I think I'm on Slide 14, right? So if I type 1 0,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's slide 10. Okay, so you guys know that trick.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you type in the number 5 enter, it jumps to slide 5. So what I do when I'm talking to a Vc. Where I'm pitching or teaching is, I know my numbers. I know my slides. I know what I'm here to talk about, so it's not just the 10 slides. If I get a question. In the meantime.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: gonna go back to 14
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as they're talking or asking me the question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm jumping to what we're talking about, because I've already thought of your question, because I have a question. Oh, yeah, just to tease. I send out the teaser. I don't even send out the deck. We don't recommend sending the deck. You hold the deck hostage. You send out a teaser like one or 2 slides, one or 2 pages that kind of thing like. No, no, send me the deck. We can have a conversation about that. This should be enough. If you have any other questions happy to respond to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know something like that. Yeah, yeah, we'll teach you that stuff, too. We'll get there. But I'll just say, like, there's a way to do it where you're over prepared. And as they ask you questions, you're literally like tracking. I know where you're going with this. I've thought about that. Here we go. Okay. I'm glad you asked. So it's almost like I'm predicting what's going to happen. And I'm doing it very confident, very swiftly, very swiftly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Founders like Jake did this, too. But all of that is like technique that can be taught. That's not like no one's like all of you can can learn, but it's extremely impressive, because most of them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. So it's 11. I have to go over Jtvd checkpoints and expectations. We've got a few slides left of this, too, so take a 5 min break. Go to the bathroom, stand up, whatever I'll take 20 ish more minutes of your time to get through this content and cover what we want from Jtvd tomorrow. That's no big deal. It's like, basically you're just documenting your progress in a few spots, so it won't take up. It shouldn't take you more than 30 min to prepare for, in my opinion.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. See you bye.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's quite useful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I'm gonna do a quick second.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Actually, you know what? I'll wait because I want everyone to be here for that. I'm gonna start with the content. I'm gonna keep going with this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: keep going through this. So we can. We just start with this part any more questions about this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, I guess I wanna I wanna emphasize something. A couple of things here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: concede some control. If I were you I'd have questions about this. What does this look like, what does that mean? How does that work?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Not at this stage at the Pre seat stage, you're typically not for the most part giving up the 4th seat. But as you get to see to Series A, that's going to be a part of the conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and to be clear, one of the trade offs of raising capital
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that now you have essentially people that you're accountable to, and I won't say one. Or but it can feel that way
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to some folks, yeah. And and not only that, they can fire you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, this is crazy. But you built this business. This is your baby. You're raising capital people, and all of a sudden, now they have power to like. Say, you're actually not the right person for this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That doesn't feel good. But that's the trade off that you're making. Sometimes when you raise capital and you give power. Investors that have more control
Neal Sáles-Griffin: get more specific like they can find
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like they can always the case on a board. So your board grows. You raise capital, you're raising a lot of money. Your business is very valuable, the stakes become higher. The question is, are you the right person for the job?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. And and and I believe all of you are, and you should be. But sometimes you might even feel that way. You might like, Yeah, we need something different.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Or you might disagree with the board. Right? So it's it's very, very like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's an incomplete
Neal Sáles-Griffin: aspect of founders understanding most people don't prepare understanding implications of going down the venture path that it needs. But if you understand it. You don't. You're signing up for, and you handle it properly. It's all good, because you have the right expectations, but that's what's going on is you are by giving up parts of your business. You're also giving up aspects of control as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you were. Gonna ask a question, Chris. Yeah. On the same topic like, how common is it to put you on a portal from the seat stage?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Definitely the series? A, sometimes it's heat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, yeah, it's I don't have an objective pattern at the seed stage, but that's a good point to note, so that we can like follow up, though, because I want to think about that. See what data I have?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. But one other thing I want to emphasize, though, is that we say alternatives aren't sufficient. Some people default to venture.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Not a good idea. In my view. You should have a very clear case and argument for why you want to be venture back. And, by the way, just because you're in techsars and with us doesn't mean that you have to stay true to the venture path. That's not my prescription for everybody. Sometimes it doesn't make sense. That's okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm actually a big fan of companies that don't need venture, because those are the ones that ventures want the most.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right. So you know your worth. You know your business. You're confident you're growing it. It's doing well, you're in control of that. And then, all of a sudden people like, hey? Well, what could you do with the 1 million dollars you're like? Well, I don't know. I thought about it, but like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: not really that interested. Well, let's talk more. So there's even more interest sometimes when you're not really looking. So that's 1 of my little strategies that I'm gonna okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean, that's their loss right if- if you have it now, if you're playing a game and you don't have it. Yes, that's that's it. That's that's on you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? But like, if you got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's real. Yeah. Sorry one. Observers like, how common is that that's relatively common. So so, for example, I I was a board observer for nutrients for a little while for my that company, and like in the past techstars, you should get observer rights like post program. We don't have that anymore. But my job now, as your investor is to earn the right to advise
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, I want to be someone that you trust you have me, no matter what
Neal Sáles-Griffin: some members want me on their board. Some people want me in the room because they know I have their back. They know my interests are aligned with them, and they know I'm not gonna tip the scales against their favor. You know, for the sake of the business or the outcome.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you want to have at least one person in that room with you that, you know, has your back and has a little bit of information
Neal Sáles-Griffin: common question I received from these things like, when did you start around? And what is your timeline?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You respond to these questions. So basically, we are in need of some money. Basically. Yeah, then, definitely, we want to close the route as soon as possible. So, but there has to be some better response to this, yeah, and we can get more into that in 1 3 with like the details. But the quick answer is, you should be honest, but you should frame things with the concentrated context that we're trying to teach you. So they're asking that question because they want to know if this is driving out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They won't understand. Like, what's what's what's going on like? Are you desperate? Are you running out of time? Do you have any commitments in that head happens, a lot of them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they think about it on there, and they want to see if you're getting momentum, or if
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're kind of bleeding out, and it helps, unfortunately, on the Vc. Side, because we'll just start.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'll wait to see if you figure it out and then decide to invest, because by the time you're like, at that point of desperation. But we actually think you have a good business or you're good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The terms are going to be optimal for us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So I'm telling you the truth, even though it's an uncomfortable truth. I don't want any of you to ever be in that position, because there's a chance you will be taken advantage of by an investor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're behaving rationally, but it's also uncomfortable.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so don't put yourself in a position where I have 3 months runway. I'm raising capital. I'm getting partial commitments, and I'm trying to desperately close the line.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll just wait right. So don't do that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. I'm gonna lay through the rest of the content because we have jobs to be done to 34, too. But we'll, you know, give you guys this stuff. And then obviously, I can revisit or go team whenever you want.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we have more to go to. So make sure you have timing marketing companies, your business ready traction relative to your stage to talk more about what that looks like on an individual basis
Neal Sáles-Griffin: place you wanna go, I know, in your slides. Most of them have milestones already kind of built in
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you feel like you are personally prepared, like with the team, with support like it's even beyond, like the techstars program experience, which is why we advise founders to kick off rounds post program because you're adding tech stars. Now, you're adding a whole fundraise, and you're trying to make your business work, like most people can't handle all those things at once
Neal Sáles-Griffin: every now and then you can, especially if your business has already got some momentum, but don't like get ahead of yourself here, and then again, we're alluding to a lot of work. I don't think there's any slide or talk I can give that will explain the enormity of that task.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Financial hygiene. We talked about the financial model planning for the capital. Yeah, this is all just reinforcing things. I need to ask this question. I'm just going to keep going. But you guys can imagine things that attract investors. We've been talking about it this whole time, but as far as the mindset of investor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they know one part of the game, that which is the investment game. They don't know your business game or your industry as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but they know the investment. So whatever thing you think you could do to them. They've seen it before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you're playing the whole, our rounds closing in 2 weeks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But we look at the business, and it's like you've got. You don't have a lot of commitments yet, like, we- We-, we see your details and your traction like, Yeah, okay, I'll talk you through this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like it's it's like that weird game that doesn't really work. So don't think you're smarter than them, because you're not because they've seen so much
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they tend to withhold. So it sounds like a good job of getting some honest Pcs. To have conversations with a lot of the time. You're not gonna hear everything from them about what they can.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The best ones will tell you actually what they think and be honest, and those are the ones you should gravitate to like, meaning. They say no to you, but you keep in touch with them because you really appreciated what they had to say, and you think they're a good mind
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like that's legit. That's authentic. It's also hard to know what they're thinking like in a pitch meeting. Sometimes they're very good at making like poker faces. It's really impossible to know. Like, if some one of your friends wasn't good, was it that you have no idea what to say? Because you just don't know. So I wouldn't overthink the actual meeting, like, you know, just focus on yourself. You're pitching your business, but it's super hard to know what they're thinking.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So hopefully. This is resonating with things I've already heard you all say, right, go early.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: do this and come back. So no one says this with me, by the way, but there's a thing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in the early days of venture back, when I was a student of the game called an Excalibur test.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Can anybody just like logic, their way to what that means. An Excalibur test, that's what we used to call it, like the early 2,000 venture.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But literally no one I've ever met knows what I'm talking about. But I know it's true.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Excalibur test. Yeah, yeah. You know, Excalibur, right? So the whole thing is like, I I'll go send a founder to go. Do a crazy thing, I think is impossible.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but every now and then the founder comes back, and they've got it, you know. And I'm like, Oh, hell, yeah, man, so that's what goes on. Every now and then a Vc will will send you on a quest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They'd be like, okay, like, I like your business. But I'm not quite sold, like, I need one like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: data point that you know how to get something done
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, so you can actually set it up for them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can say I have something really important coming up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's just say you already know that you're going to nail it. But in your mind you frame it to the Vc. Like you're trying to get there because it's true you are trying to get there, but you can like almost position it thoughtfully in a way where you invoke them to challenge you to hit that goal
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So Troy does this all the time. Troy actually taught me this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so he always likes to track what a founder says they are going to do. He writes it down when he meets with them again in a month or 2 weeks, or whatever the 1st thing on the call is like, hey, you said you were going to do this thing. Did you do it? How did it go? So there's a really good way to like demonstrate progress. If you know that something's coming up that you could nail, and you frame it to them as something. You're aspiring
Neal Sáles-Griffin: big thing, because what that says to an investor is, they do what they say they're going to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: team market traction. That's the summary. But the story piece those pitches yesterday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is gonna give tonight.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's where it all starts. That's what gets people interested to find out these things. So that 1 min is gonna like, set you up to make the case in all of those key areas
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're gonna spend like Demo Day is the culmination of you being good at this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but the big thing that I'm looking for as an investor is. Can I imagine this CEO running
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a billion dollar company?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Are they demonstrating the characteristics of the kind of leader and visionary that it would take to build enough business to make our fund
Neal Sáles-Griffin: most of the time as a Vc. I'm looking for one or 2
Neal Sáles-Griffin: big bets, and we're swinging for the fences for a home.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So every CEO, that I'm betting on there's some version of potential that has been identified that you could become that person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So how you do anything is how you do everything.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What did Jake talk about with his team? We show up to things on time. We, you know, we meet our goals. We do what we say. We're going to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you, as a CEO of your business, are setting that culture for your team and all of those behaviors and characteristics. They're never gonna tell. The Vc. Is never gonna like acknowledge this. They're just paying attention to whether you show up to your meetings, or whether you have an agenda plan, whether you set them agenda beforehand all those little details, how you communicate the nuances there, data points for investors to determine whether a founder is worthy or not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the contrast is so clear because the majority of founders that we're talking to don't do these things. So when you do these things right, it stands out, even if it's not that hard to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool and I really like this one, because, like we talked about yesterday with your pitches.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's no just one. Size fits. All conversation. Context is what matters tonight. Different pitch and mentor madness. In 2 weeks
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Demo day different than your concentrated Vc. Conversations in June. All of those are going to be different versions of your pitch, and different versions of your story, catered to exactly your problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you know a particular Vc. Really cares in their thesis about a certain subject matter all of a sudden your deck, your greeting. What you allude to in your conversation with them about your business starts to like gravitate to a certain area over another.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're making different like value trade offs. So it's not like you just have a deck, and this is our deck and look at it. No people like Jake. They have debts for particular Vcs. That they've catered and customized. So the names of the firms or the people you're meeting with is the file name of the freaking deck because you have different versions depending on who you're talking to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's how detailed it is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Know a great tool to do that problem
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that could send them as like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: camera links. Not ask them for emails, or whatever is it better just to search the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that preference in mind?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know. Sometimes they'll tell you if they have a preference
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for me. I don't really care
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like it's never been a problem like, just yeah. Sometimes some people are weird. Some people have a very particular way that they want things to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know. It shouldn't be a big deal for you to match, whatever it is. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's it. Lets you track how, what? What side we're looking at, and where we spend time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can move on to pound that, too. If you discount
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 10 min is good enough. There
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes leases won't like that. They don't like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: knowing where they're spending time looking at your stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not like that's like old school, but every now and then you need someone who's a little snickety about it. Just send me send me the Pdf. Is kind of like that. So you know, Board Member Co. Founder techstars. He's definitely got that energy. We're like you like you better get where he's at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's cool. I don't really make a big deal with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So most of the time you want to be answering questions rather than speaking.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So your job is to get the main points across, say less
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and figure out where they care
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So your job in those conversations is to talk more about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cover enough ground to entice certain questions from them. Sometimes you can manipulate what questions they ask.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Call it scared. Mind trick.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You know, these aren't the drugs you're looking for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the whole notion is that I will allude to certain things that I know will like activate your curiosity. And then, all of a sudden, once we're ready for Q. And a 1st question you ask I've already got the slide like queue, meaning you don't see it yet, but as soon as you start asking the question. Let's talk about that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm always ready to go deeper.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Team is huge team. Is everything right now, team is not emphasized enough at this stage. I don't know if you all understand the extent that this is analyzed and discussed on the back end with investors. But we know that your business is inevitably going to change
Neal Sáles-Griffin: beyond tech starts. Your business is going to change. You've heard the stories of the pivots. So, understanding the customer and demonstrating your team's collective understanding of it and your pride of your team, and how you work with them as a leader is going to be key. So you need to demonstrate in some way that you have a very strong co-founder and team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The way this is typically done is, the CEO can't help himself, but invoke team members at certain points in their conversation. As they talk about their business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they allude to them. They address areas that they're great. They talk about how they play off one another. They pull them into those conversations. I think it came up here in conversation, like where some of you like are like, they ask you to bring your team members to the next meeting or conversation, too. That's very important.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Yeah, I actually, I want to call that one clock speed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is a really telltale sign.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Are they quick to apply? Do they learn quickly? Do they move fast like, are they agile? Are they a quick study?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're we're we're looking out for those patterns of of behavior. And how well were you listening and paying attention. There's people who like pick up on the details. So there's nuances in the questions that Vcs ask. So if you write down all the questions you get in those conversations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You answered them in the call. Sure. But what if you think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: more about it? And afterwards you follow up? You know I I thought more about your question, and I know I said this. I just wanted to add a couple more things about it to reinforce what we talked about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a level of thoughtfulness and attention to detail that becomes a very positive behavior pattern with good investments.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we will spell out. Gsd, see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that was at the bottom last night.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, let's see, output. Tsd, yeah, it's the same as output, basically like, so the idea is like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I mean, you guys already passed this test. You wouldn't be a tech stars if you didn't pass this test. But will you continue
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like you guys would be shocked. Some people raise capital
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who actually aren't that good? They're they're good at seeming good, but they're not actually that good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's not about you having those meetings, and having the interest is about how well you follow through, whether the business continues to perform, and you keep up with the pace of the due diligence process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if all of a sudden we don't hear from founders, or they lag behind, or they said expectation that they don't meet, and they're constantly resetting expectations. Oh, I'm sorry I was late, or I missed this thing, or I messed up here. I said I was going to get it to you. Then should it would have, could all these excuses about like that's not good behavior. You wouldn't want a team member who does that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So why would I want an investment or a founder, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: almost done. Here, guys market
Neal Sáles-Griffin: big fan of bottom up, over top, down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let the Vc. Do some of the top down, thinking you can do it for them. You can feed it to them. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the ratio of bottom up to top down is lopsided
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like far more people start top down first.st And I'm like, even if the Vc. Wants you to do that, I need to like remind them like, Hey, just so, you know, like, I understand this is important. But this is how I think about my business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you work them up. You work them from the bottom up. And you say, here's where we are today. Here's what we're going to be next year. Here's where we want to be in 3. Here's what we're going to be in 5. Here's what it looks like. Here's why I'm excited. Here are all my backup plans and strategies and things along with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Walk them through that because they're going to do that analysis with or without you. You want to do it for them, because if they do it, it won't be in your favor nearly as much as you've been branded.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So do the math for them. Make it easy. Yeah, it's going back to uncle's question before. How do you balance this with like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it looks like this field. If I look smaller then like it's easily like Cookie Culture Project and then go to like. I don't know hospitality like this sector like this sector and this sector.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's important not to be lazy about it, because you can just kind of say, yeah. And all these things could happen. That's that's maybe true. What's more interesting is how
Neal Sáles-Griffin: critically thought out your strategy would be as you evolve.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you're you're not. You're laying out the evolutions of potential. You have a particular way, and you've already thought about the alternatives you're like. Here's the strategy I have here all the things I'm doing to ensure we reach this market size like in this target audience.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There are some alternative pathways that we can talk about. If you have any questions that I've thought through.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I'm really focused here. This is my strategy that I'm committed to right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but it's just not to make it seem like too small of a bucket. But it's just the one that you offer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is where I have a little bit of contradictory advice. Almost always we're talking about important market size and like how big it needs to be
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, I said, I'm I'm more on the Yc. Side of thinking about this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's in my personal opinion, which is like small markets can become larger markets with the right strategy in time. So I like that approach. I think it makes sense to me. But you do get written off by a number of Vcs and firms. If you weren't obviously a big enough market, it's just not even the conversation. It won't get you in the door for me. Some couldn't think beyond
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right. So I because we talk about it as a team like when we're looking at all of our applications. That's 1 of the markers like in our system. We have a system, and when it's a small market we get to invest in it. They're like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? Well, here's how we're thinking about. Here's how we're thinking about their marketing. So we have to make the case sometimes on your behalf that we see more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I do. But it's like I feel like, that's such.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: feel it restricted. I think it cuts some of the strategies. It's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you go time. Sometimes it's it's almost okay. Well, here's the advertised mark. And here's Sam. And here's a song, and I feel like that doesn't show a real depth of understanding of the market. But it's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. Hey, look, for example, we're gonna start off with like retail brands, or like whatever the businesses want to sell with. It's like 5,000.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I don't know from Rita we can quickly get on. That's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that big. So it feels like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's easier also. More like, I think, go to market is like how we'll capture. But like the market size. It's like, well, this market started. It's this size. But don't worry because we can go after. These are the markets that collectively make
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it got to be some little the crustables at the front
Neal Sáles-Griffin: peanut butter and jelly. That's what we're talking about like these are they? Go together. They're delicious, you know, as I'm saying, like, you gotta bring them together. One or the other is useless. But the the picture for Vc. Is what we need to tell. That's what we need to see like you can't just show me how big the market is. You gotta show me how you're gonna get it. And you can really demonstrate that with traction. So the whole notion here is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you are showing me that you're real.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay? So one thing I've seen from very frustrated operators and entrepreneurs who are part of angel funds, like the real entrepreneur.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like there's some investors who are also operators. The best ones aren't.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but more so. The operators are part of like annual groups and things like that, because they're successful, and they can write a few checks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What they'll say in a very frustrating time is that most founders are tourists.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're they're playing startup. They're fake. They're not real, because what they're good at is making a lot of stuff look really pretty and compelling. Right? I can make a nice deck. I can tell a good story. I can, you know, show a few hacks or beautiful ui big idea, new technology, great resume. Look at all these Logos and blah blah, blah!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do you have the stuff like, are you doing something real? Do you have customers? Do you have traction? Do you have engagement? What are your user metrics? What do you focus on? What do you pay attention to? You're at time. Get out of here. If you have 1130, I'll finish the rest later. But just to go into a little bit traction is everything my job here by teaching jobs to be done, not spending our 1st month on fundraising is because I want you all to understand how to do that, even if you don't have traction, you need to demonstrate
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the potential for it because of the experiments you're running currently
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So I don't care if you have one or 5 customers. If you can demonstrate from those customers that they're incredibly happy. There's high engagement and high usage.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I need to imagine a few more Zeros added onto that over the next year.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And if you show me that you have that plan, if you show investors right now that you have that plan. They're trying to get in early before it takes off.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it's discount.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're currently discounted, and you know that you're about to become way more expensive in a few months.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you can demonstrate that Delta.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I, as an investor, take it to my committee, to my GPS. I'm like yo
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like the price is about to double like their price is gonna double within the next 6 months we gotta get it. It's it's too good of a deal to pass up on. That's the kind of like back Channel conversation that you want to activate amongst the Vcs. But you have to demonstrate that objective
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with the numbers scroll.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mrr. Used to growth. You guys kind of know all of this, so I won't belabor it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's see what's important. Oh, sales! Cycle comes up a lot. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we do worry about this, especially for brio
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at tech like this. This is like a death note. This is like one of the challenges you're gonna have to overcome, because there's certain patterns and industries and certain types of customers, especially b 2 b that can give us the Heebie Jeebies like we get worried. Really, really quickly. But another thing that comes up that tends to put founders on their heels is when we start to really PIN you down about how
Neal Sáles-Griffin: well you understand your engagement metrics.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's not enough to say, Oh, these are how many users we have, or this is how many sign ups we have, or these are, how many, you know this is our our monthly active usage.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm like, Okay, well, what does that mean? Let's break it down. How do you think about that? And then the closer we get.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the more we realize that very few founders actually have a mastery of understanding of what user behavior actually matters and signifies retention.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So showing them that you go beyond the basics
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that you've really dialed in for the nuances of your business, what behaviors, and where they spend their time on a daily, weekly, monthly basis through your platform, and what success stories you can share about how they're actually finding value from it and success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That is key.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the nuances of knowing your customers and users behavior illuminating that is the element of traction that's gonna be the most compelling, for
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we are gonna go so deep on this, you're not even gonna be ready for next week on promise, like so deep is- Is- is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think I will boldly claim
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that we have one of the strongest frameworks for assessing project marketing a big accelerated program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I stand by not have sex or beds.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Text our San Francisco slash field programs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I spent a lot of time working with a few people on what this looks like. What this means.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've you know, built out some systems that help us calculate it, that I'm working on nights and weekends. I'm obsessed with finding ways to get you all close to the truth as to whether you have this or whether you might have it or you could have it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I'll send an article. I'll send that link out. This is more of a tech star thing. That's not my thing, but that's really good. The superhuman test is great. I have a version of it that we'll start off with. Just make sure. Next Wednesday you're available.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you all recover from the retreat on Monday you drive back.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: go home wherever we'll figure something out. But on Wednesday
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're gonna take it off that like whole journey, and I can't wait. We usually do it halfway into the program. But we've moved it up this time. So we're gonna get the party started.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you will know more about this very soon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool. I think we are at the end.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, this is near 2 slides, though cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've already said all of this. You guys know my market as I set that expectation. Y'all in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be ready and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: treat it the same way that you treat your business so again. It is a slog, it does suck, but at the same time, if you learn to love it, if you gamify it, if you turn it into an activity that's critical for your progress. It's just another aspect of you being a CEO.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's part of the game.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, we go.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think we're done here. Yeah. So we're done here. I have one last thing to share about jobs to be done, and we will get the heck out of here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me screen, share one more time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to choose to marry. My, she's kind of thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Our screen there we go.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is that good? Okay, so this is one of the companies from the last program from San Francisco. This is a Jtv checkpoint. Share the screen criteria. We'll talk it out. Talk about what you've done so far. If you've done interviews or not, that we just want to know where things stand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can give a little example of what search you did like. These guys are really, they were really good. I chose them for a reason, but they basically showed how they identified who they wanted to talk to and what they did to like. Build the list of people that they're reaching out to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then talk about the list, and how they're going through it and organizing the information
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they have, like a few people from the same meeting, or like again, is very explicit, like, you're not customizing. Oh, yeah, it's a group thing. It's 2 on one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, it's 2 of you, one of them conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's how it is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is what they did. This is one of my favorite checkpoints that we saw from last time, not everybody this far longer thoughtful about it. But I would love for all of you all to be there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then they talk about like some of the challenges they're facing. Currently. So the idea is like, here's like the overview. Here's our screening criteria. We get feedback on that. Talk about how you're screening for recruits. If you're already reaching out. If you've already had interview or unpack those and talk about a little bit. This is the last time. So so just like 4 or 5 slides talking about you know where where you're at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Remind us of your screen criteria, or let's talk to refining it. What you've gotten done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how you're searching or identifying the people to talk to what you have scheduled.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where you stand on like having those people, and how many of the criteria is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what challenges you're facing and where you need support and what you want to talk to with us
Neal Sáles-Griffin: about 5 min each.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Give you something. Sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The 1st one is actually sites
Neal Sáles-Griffin: often like tough to know who took the decision what the decision process would like to hire. Do you have any like tips on that, or like what you've done so far like trying to understand when the decision was made, which is already then track down whoever was probably the decision maker at the time. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, sometimes, especially B to B, you won't always be able to get to the decision maker easily or first.st So figure out you're in
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right, so do your best to get it in. And then once you get it in, you get a referral.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So 2 things that one is, if the person you're talking to isn't a decision maker, ask them once you talk to them, would they mind allowing you to talk to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then to some, and, by the way, from company to company, that decision maker might be at a different level. So that's the job. Because here's the thing. Most of your competitors aren't getting that detail and figuring that out in their research. So that's part of your advantage. But the other thing is, never forget to ask whoever you're interviewing for a referral to anyone else they know
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in their world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the whole idea is like, they know people who do their job at a different company or in the same company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Would you mind. Would you be open introducing us to anyone who's also doing this? We'd like to get to know more people like you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Second question I have was like. For all things, we work with universities. So that, like director and like, there's like President, or like director of the school, and what we've been trying to do in sales was like, All right, we're talking with like just the carrier center which have less budgets, less decision power. And you try to go to the top directly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to be on more like strategic issues. And I guess so our competitors didn't do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So for the jobs to be done internally, should we talk with people who took the decision, or people who want to take a decision?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yes, it's clear my default is always the person who actually made the decision. However, they're not always easy to reach. So take what you can get.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So like again, it's going to be hard. It's gonna sub. It's gonna be uncomfortable, won't get complete data in the beginning. But it's like it's more like the person a, for instance, director of personal. And they maybe have a project about 5,000 I don't know. And we say we're saying like, if you can sell to like the someone on top of them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You could probably sell it better and in more more expensive way, but they probably didn't take the decision that time. Should we talk to them or not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No, probably not because they haven't done anything.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, that being said, there's nuance there. So I'm hesitating to answer you fully, because, like, I want to unpack that situation where we can talk about it individually. But the idea is like, maybe they hired something else, though.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, like, maybe they didn't do that higher that you're thinking of. But maybe there's some other decision that they made.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Maybe there's a person that they hired. Maybe there's a budget that they have changed. There might be some other important decision that that senior person made that would be helpful
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you didn't know about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's why I'm like a little hesitant to give you an objective answer, because I'm like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that might be different than what I'm saying right now, if you give me more detail. Okay, so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talking to lower level people in a board can often be a good way to understand how the old works and how to reach higher people like early on when you're navigating a new market. It wouldn't necessarily be a jobs call if they're not the decision maker, but don't like yes, might might be able to help you identify.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not sure that Mike picked up on that, but I want to make sure that stuff like that when you say it, we have it recorded too
Neal Sáles-Griffin: awesome. Any other bonus questions. I'm here for you. I know we're we're way over time. But this is, I really love this kickoff conversation super specific. We'll deal with it. Outside of this site. Oh, the like this, right here in the fundraising stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just because saw you speak through. Everything that I'm presenting to you is accessible.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, but I'll do it now. So go ahead. Wonderful. Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. I'm gonna stop this. But I'm still here to talk, got a display.